Most of the food we eat turns into
glucose or sugar for fuel.
Digested food moves from the gut
into blood vessels so it can travel
to all parts of the body.
A hormone called insulin
“unlocks” cells so that glucose from the blood
can enter cells throughout your body
where it serves as fuel.
Insulin is produced by the pancreas
when glucose levels in the blood increase.
In diabetes, there are problems with
how insulin is made or works.
When insulin does not move
glucose from blood into cells,
blood sugar levels stay high
while your cells cannot get enough fuel.
There are 2 main types of diabetes.
In type 1, the pancreas does not make insulin
and a person must take insulin to stay alive.
In type 2, the most common type,
either the pancreas does not make enough insulin
or it is not effective at moving sugar into cells.